All right guys.
Now we're going to start to talk about animation in CSX.
And there's a few ways to do animations you have key frames which you're going to be looking at.
Now we also have transitions.
Basically when you animate something and CSX what it means is you're taking a property that can be animated
such as a with a position a color opacity something like that where you have basically you have midpoint.
So let's take a width for example you have zero pixels and let's say you go to six hundred pixels.
Well there's there's all the pixels in between.
So you can go from zero to six hundred pixels you can animate that so you can make something grow or
shrink.
You also have positions so you can move things around.
You have opacity so you can fade things in Fade things out.
Stuff like that.
So let's get started with key frames.
So I'm going to create a new file here I'm going to call it 0 7 underscore key frames dot HD hymnal.
Let's put in our stuff here.
Sure you guys are so coherent and we say that and do this but just want to set everything up from scratch.
All right.
So key frames now as far as the H team l we're gonna have a single div with the class of box.
That's it.
OK.
We're going to create this this div basically it's gonna be a square and we're going to animated.
So in the style.
Let's let's start off by doing body.
I'm going to give it a dark background.
All right let's open this up.
So if dark background and then for the box let's make this a white box by default.
So back ground I will make this white.
Actually you know what.
Let's use let's use words because we're gonna be animating the colors.
So background y obviously nothing is going to show up because it's empty there's no content in it.
So that means we have to add a width and height.
So we'll say with 200 picks and height 200 picks and save and now we have a white box it's 200 pixels
wide into and pixels high.
Now what I want to do is let's and let's end and meet the width.
First of all so when it comes to animation we have a bunch of different properties and then we also
can combine them much like we can with many other properties like border background stuff like that
but let's look at each one one by one.
So first I'm going to do animation dash name and I'm going to call this intimate let's do animate one
and let's do an inmate
duration case this is the time that it should take to animate.
I'm going to say two seconds.
All right.
Now why is this giving me an error here.
It's probably because we didn't create animate one.
I'm sorry.
Animation duration.
OK.
Now this animate one right here.
This.
We have to create a key frame called inmate 1.
So we're going to go down below and we're gonna say at key frames and then enemy 1.
And you can call it whatever you want.
I just chose inmate 1 so we can basically specify points in the animation.
Now I'm going to do this.
The simplest way first from first just to show you.
And that's from and to.
So we'll say from.
So from we could say like so let's extend the width.
So if we could say from with 200 picks and then to set with two let's say 600 picks and let's save and
then we go.
So you can see that we get that little animation now since it's 200 pix to begin with.
We don't even need the from like we could simply say to with 600 picks and if I save it still it still
works.
Now there's some other things that we can add here.
And by the way if you want to change the duration to five seconds now it's going to take five seconds
for that to happen for it to extend to 600 pixels.
We're going to change it back to 2.
Notice how it only goes once.
What we could do is add in animation dash iteration count and to right now it's set to 1.
But let's set it to 2 and let's save and see what happens.
So we get 1 2 and then stops.
OK.
Now if you wanted to keep going you can use infinite.
So I'll save and it'll just keep going.
Now I'm going to set this back to 1
which is the default.
And I'm going to add another property here called animation dash filled dash mode.
So right now notice that once it's done animating once it's done stretching out it goes back to the
to its default of two hundred pixels right.
So what if we want to keep it at that stretched out six hundred pixels.
We can change this to forwards OK so if we save this now it's going to anime and it's going to stay
where it's at.
All right.
Let's see we also have just to show you some more properties we have animation delay which shall set
to two seconds.
So now once they save it's going to wait two seconds and then it's going to start OK.
So it's going to delay the start of the animation.
We also have animation dash direction and let's set that to alternate.
So if we save that actually notes it's two alternate dash or does it alternate reverse
so then it's going to go reverse so you can do that as well.
We're going to keep it our alternate.
And then the last one I'm going to show you is the timing function so animation dash timing dash function.
And this is basically like the the motion and you could do like ease ease in which is going to kind
of start off and start off fast.
And then like ease in or ease out which will start off slow and then go faster.
So let's look at ease in there's not too much of a difference at least in my opinion.
Let's make the let's make the duration a little longer we'll say five seconds and let's watch the motion
near it's going to delay.
So it starts off slow and then it starts to go faster.
All right let's let's actually comment out the delay but let's do ease.
Oh and see the difference.
So save and so it starts fast and then it slows down and then you can also do ease in our
ease in O which will start off slow in and slow.
So it eases out.
And then it eases in all right those are the different timing functions that you can use
now obviously with isn't the only thing we can enemy.
Let's do color so let's say we want the color or I'm sorry the background color color would be the text.
So we want background color and let's set that to red and we'll go ahead and save.
Now not only is it going to extend to 600 pixels but it's going to turn to red.
It's going to go through all the color the whole color system and it's going to go from white to red.
Let's see another thing we could do is it's position so let's actually let's give this a position of
relative.
Because remember when we add position relative we can use parameters like top bottom left right.
So what I'll do is say from
top zero So basically its default position and then two we're gonna end up at let's say from the top
we want to go down three hundred pixels.
So let's save and now you can see that it's animating the with the color and also the position moving
it from from 0 from the top down to 300 pixels from the top.
Now like I said there's a shortcut for this so you don't have to have all of these different properties
we can simply use the animation property.
So I'm going to uncommon the delay and I'm going to comment all of these out and I'm going to show you
how we can do this with just one line or just one property.
So going to say animation first parameter here is going to be the name of the animation.
So animator one second is going to be the speed or the the the duration.
So we'll say five seconds.
Next is going to be the fill mode.
So I wanted to stop at the end so we'll do forwards if we wanted to delay we could do that.
We'll do a one second delay and then we can do the timing function so I'll do ease in out.
OK so let's save that.
Wait a second and then it does the same thing.
OK.
So this is just a shorter way to do all this stuff.
So that's it in the next video.
We're going to we're going to still look at key frames but I want to show you how we can add different
points.
We don't have to do just from and to we can actually use percentages in here and we're going to make
an element move around the screen a little bit different points.
All right.
So I'll see you in the next video.